Classics, for me, is a gateway to understanding the roots of our contemporary world. It is a discipline that allows us to peer back into the depths of human thought, creativity, and culture. The works of ancient philosophers, writers, and historians have left an indelible mark on our collective intellectual culture, and I am eager to engage with these texts to gain insights into not only the origins of Western thought but how they themselves reacted to what had come before them.

Throughout my academic journey, I have demonstrated a strong commitment to learning, critical thinking, and interdisciplinary exploration. While on the Access Course, being able to study a range of ideas not directly linked to the Classics has helped me enormously insofar as developing my mind to look for connections between the contemporary and the classical world. My coursework has further nurtured my analytical skills and honed my ability to engage with complex ideas. While these subjects may not be directly related to Classics, they have equipped me with a solid foundation in critical thinking and research that I believe will serve me well in my study.

But my passion for learning extends well beyond the classroom. I am an avid reader, and my first exposure with ancient Greece was a copy of the Symposium from my school’s Everyman’s Library. The ideas about love and desire explored by Plato left an indelible mark on me, a mark that for many years I have been unable to recognise.

Since my school did not offer any courses related to the classical world I’ve had to look elsewhere for my education. Books like the historical fiction of Mary Renault, or the vivid revellings of myth from Stephen Fry gave me a steady foundation and have lead to me discovering many ancient works in translation like the epics of Homer or the tragedies of Sophocles.

This thirst for knowledge that drives me to explore diverse subjects, from archaeology to linguistics, that intersect with the field of Classics. My extracurricular activities, such as attending lectures and seminars on classical topics, showcase my dedication to self-directed learning and intellectual growth. A talk I recently attended queer love in the ancient world, reigniting that old spark from my younger years and allowed me to discuss and build upon these ideas with like-minded people.

Although I never got the chance to study Latin or ancient Greek at school I have been independently studying Latin with the help of Collar and Daniell’s The Beginner’s Latin Book. This has helped me to see language learning in a new light - no longer as a collection of vocabulary with indistinct rules and codes but as a tradition that spans thousands of years with a clear logic and development in how a basic sentence is formed. The of deciphering ancient texts, understanding linguistic shifts over time, and exploring the nuances of expression all fascinate me and I’m eager to build these skills on my course.

My commitment to sharing knowledge and fostering academic engagement is a fundamental aspect of my character. I have previously interned at a local nature reserve to assist with their community outreach schemes and while there I was lucky to be able to engage with the public through workshops and community talks which helped develop invaluable communication skills. I really believe that education is a collaborative endeavour, and the future of the study of Classics lie with engaging with the public and making the subject accessible to anyone.

I view this as the beginning of a journey to uncover the hidden treasures of classical languages and to contribute to the broader understanding of the ancient world's linguistic heritage. I am eager to embark on this academic adventure and excited about the possibilities it holds.

Word Count: 697 / 3784 characters
